Lab 9: Finalizing Your Learning Portfolio

This repository contains all the work I've for COMP0020: Web Programming, including all labs and assignments assigned over this past semester.

Out of all the assignments we've done throughout the course, my favorite is assignment 2, creating the Marauder's Map using the Google Map API, sending data to a database to retrieve data from it to add location markers for other students within the class. One of the major things I've learned in the class is how vast of a topic "web programming" really is. Even now, I can't say I feel like a pro in any of the topics we've learned. But I'm confident that I'd be able to research more about it on my own and figure things out.

Assignment 2 was a large testament to that: we not only had to figure out how to get the Google Maps API working, but also how to use a bunch of its features - adding markers for several data points, using unique markers, adding polylines, etc. Additionally, we had to figure out how to use the XMLHttpRequest object to communicate asynchronously with a database and get data back by sending it data using the navigator.geolocation object. There were many steps that went into finishing the assignment, a lot of which I felt I had to figure out by myself. At the same time, the assignment gave us many freedoms: we had guidelines to follow, but were allowed to get as creative as we wanted to as long as the guidelines were met. Furthermore, once the assignment was finished, there was still a lot more than could be done with it - which just shows how much can be done with web programming. 

The course has taught me not only different tools that can be used in web programming, but also a lesson that is important anywhere: if I search and try hard enough, there's a lot that I can learn on my own, given a little bit of guidance. It was a frustrating experience, but one that had helped me to see what I can do and learn, even without a textbook. It's been pretty cool to see how much I've learned and haven't learned in one semester. This repository itself is a testament to that - so much done, and at the same time, so little done! How everything was done, is yet another example. Yes, we were introduced to some of the topics in class. But just seeing it done by the professor doesn't mean I knew how to use it. Getting things to work required a lot of trial and error and research.

Taking this course has not only helped me grow in knowledge, but as a scholar, too. I started off struggling with git and figuring out github and simply creating a page with a mock resume. Now, I've done much more than just that: I've learned about AJAX, MongoDB, nodeJS, different APIs, etc. It was frustrating part of learning, but I've now seen that it's equally rewarding - if not more - to see the end results.

At the end of the semester, we began to briefly touch base on web security and different vulnerabilities back-end developers face. Now that the course is over, I'm interested in learning more about web security and breaking down the things we've learned in the course, seeing how everything comes together.